The way that we typically code,
is by doing what's called
the bottom-up technique.
And what that means is, we put all
of our application logic inside of
the event handlers, or
wherever the pertinent user action occurs.
For example, if we have a button,
and in fact,
we're going to just go ahead and
make a button over here.
So in this welcome screen,
let's add a button.
And it's just going to say click me,
and you'll see that the button is there.
We'll give it an ID button
just to track it, all right.
So you'll see a click me button over here.
Now, generally what we do,
is we add event handlers to things
where we want things to happen.
So I'm gonna go ahead and
do that over here.
I'm going to first get the button,
so const elButton equals
documents.querySelector, and
I'm gonna just get that by.
And then we're going to add
an event listener to that button.
So elButton.addEventListener,
click.
One minute, we are going to, for example,
console.log I am clicked.
So when we do that,
let's open up our console and see.
We see that the button says I am clicked.
And so, this is generally
how we manage our states.
We put all of our application logic,
inside of the event handlers themselves.
Now, this isn't very maintainable for
a few reasons, but
I'm going to demonstrate one
of the reasons why over here.
So let's say that this button,
we want it to track, or
we want it to actually load something from
an API, or just do something in general.
So we could console.log, loading data,
and let's also log Date.now.
So what this is going to do is when
we click the button, you could just
pretend that we're loading some data,
and that's going to show up right here.
But immediately you see the problem,
when we click that button,
we see that we might be loading
data more times than we need to.
And in fact, when data is loading,
we really don't want that
button to be clickable again.
So one of the normal things that we do,
is we will disable the button.
So I believe it's elButton.setAttribute
disabled, we could just set that to true.
And so, now once the button is clicked,
and I think there needs to be a string.
It will be disabled, and so
we can no longer click it.
In fact, You could go ahead and
style the button so that when it
is disabled, the opacity is lower.
So now you'll see when we click it,
nothing happens.
But the problem with this is that,
now your application logic
lives inside the event handler.
And when you have more event handlers,
and more things you could do in the app,
all of that logic is going to be
spread out throughout your app,
instead of located in one central place.
And so
that's what bottom-up code is about.
It's about jumping straight into the code,
instead of properly modeling
our application logic, so
that we could have flexible,
maintainable, and reusable logic.
And so this means that code that's
bottom-up, is really difficult to
test because we have to know
exactly where all the logic lives.
And we have to make sure that we activate
that logic in the event handler,
instead of doing something as
simple as sending any events.
So this also means that bottom-up
code is difficult to understand.
And that is because when
a developer on your team asks you,
what is the logic of this,
what's the flow of this?
They have to look at all
of those event handlers and
all of that spread out logic, and
sort of piece it together in their mind,
instead of having a central
place where that logic can live.
And so this means that your code,
almost guaranteed, will contain bugs.
And that's because it's very hard
to find the central source of
making sure the logic is correct, and
making sure that impossible states and
impossible transitions can't happen.
In fact, this means that the code
is also difficult to enhance.
So if you have bottom-up code where
your logic is spread out through
all of these event handlers and
all of these ad hoc places,
like at the .then callback of the promise,
or anywhere else.
Then, in order to add a feature, you have
to find all of those event handlers and
all those places where the logic lives,
and
make sure that they don't interfere
with the logic you currently have.
You've probably run into this
before where you add a feature, and
all of a sudden five other features don't
work anymore because of unseen bugs.
So this is why features make it worse.
The more features you have,
the more ways that a user or services
with your app can interact with your app,
and the more things that can happen.
In fact, it's combinatorially more.
So there's this concept called
combinatorial explosion,
where basically if you have two choices,
then that means that you really have
four possibilities,
because it's two to the power of two.
If you have three choices,
that's eight possibilities or
two to the power of three, and that just
gets exponentially bigger and bigger.
So you could consider each one of those
features, exponentially in more ways
that the app could be represented,
and that the app could work.
And so it's very hard to test
every single one of those flows.
And you have to really
program defensively,
in order to make sure that you're
not accidentally introducing bugs.